We Begin the day at the largest hospital
in Gaza a hospital Israel claims is also
being used by Hamas as a war room in the
first weeks after Israel declared war
against Hamas the alifa hospital became
a shelter for more than 60,000 displaced
people many of those people have
reportedly moved on in the last two
weeks the Israeli military has
repeatedly pointed to alifa hospital
claiming that Hamas leaders are
operating a command center underground
directly below the hospital complex on
Thursday a strike hit inside the
hospital grounds the source of the blast
is a known Hamas said it was an Israeli
air strike the IDF has not commented our
first report tonight contains images
that some viewers may find
disturbing displaced Gins were sleeping
here near Al Sher hospital when it came
under
attack now the area outside the hospital
looks small like a
graveyard the hospital complex where
thousands I believe to have been staying
came under bombardment before the attack
Israel said that his forces had been
operating near the
hospital our forces in Gaza have reached
the heart of Gaza City they're at the
outskirts of shatti they're near alifa
hospital and very near to the gasa Port
those terrorists who were in the
basement's underneath alifa hospital
tonight can hear the Thundering sound of
tank chains the bulldozers that pound
the ground they can hear it
underground the Israeli military said it
had started using new methods to Target
Hamas militants in underground tunnels
but since some of these tunnels are
under Gaza hospitals many civilians have
run out of options to hide from the
attacks we were on the fifth floor
because we were wounded so we were
staying there and then we found bombs
falling on us the daughter of my
husband's brother was mared she was
already wounded from before and she was
mared the World Health Organization said
that several hospitals across Gaza have
been targeted it added that an
increasing number of hospitals are no
longer functioning the information I
have at the moment is that there are
only uh we now only have we we got 20
hospitals out of action we also know
that there was significant bombardment
of rantisi Hospital which is the only
Hospital providing Pediatric Services in
North Gaza and in that hospital were a
number of children who were on life
support and children receiving
dialysis as Fierce fighting continues
with more and more Health Facilities
attacked for civilians in Northern Gaza
neither stain nor living seems to be a
safe
option I'm joined Now by journalist Sami
soal he is following things for us from
Jerusalem Sammy let me ask you about the
explosion the the strike at the alifa
hospital Hamas says that it was an
Israeli air strike has the IDF
commented yeah well we did not hear any
kind of denial uh from the IDF regarding
what happened there and in fact they're
confirming that there is IDF activity
around the hospital of shifa and around
the complex of the uh hospitals which
are further bit a bit north uh we're
talking about the the Children's
Hospital ontis the ner
Hospital there's no no denial and in
fact there's also confirmation that
they've been calling on the staff in
these uh hospitals to leave and they've
been calling all these hospitals to
evacuate to the
South the prime minister of Israel
Netanyahu has now elaborated on a plan
for Gaza after this war what do we know
about
that yeah well it's it's not a very
detailed plan but definitely uh it is he
stating that Israel
will have the
security control over the Gaza Strip
that uh not only will it not be in the
hands of of Hamas but it will not be in
the hands of any other International uh
force and there have been suggestions
that that maybe there would be an Arab
force that would come there well Natan
is saying no there has to be Israeli
presence in the Gaza Strip I mean he
said that Israel doesn't have intentions
uh to to occupy it in the long term that
means there might be some ministers in
this government that are thinking in
terms of of building settlements in the
Gaza Strip well this is not the position
of the Prime Minister and he's saying
that uh we're just talking about a kind
of a security uh control and on top of
it there will be a buffer zone uh which
will be a tightly controlled by the
Israeli military uh along the border
with Gaza the security buffer Z meaning
inside the Gaza Strip Samy we know that
the the conflict the fighting is not
limited to Gaza there have been air
strikes against Hezbollah in Lebanon
there have been raids in the West Bank
does the government of Israel does it
have the Public's confidence as it
fights what looks like multiple fronts
here yeah so uh I I would say that in
terms of West Bank and and Lebanon we're
talking about two very different kinds
of theaters I mean Lebanon is seen as a
major threat with hisbah
having tens of thousands of rockets some
of them exact that could cause a lot of
damage much more than what we've seen
coming out from the Gaza Strip and their
voices in the Israeli public and also in
the Israeli government
that believe that Israel should strike
and and have a kind of a preemptive
strike inside uh Lebanon hit hisbah
Israel has evacuated tens of thousands
of Israelis along the border with
Lebanon so there is an anticipation that
there will be an escalation uh with
Lebanon now in terms of the trust that
you were asking about the in the
government I would say that even though
nany himself is not popular all
currently there is trust in the military
in the IDF even though the IDF failed on
the 7th of October still the public
believes that that the military can do
what has to be done and that kind of
faith is what is keeping morale among
the the soldiers so we hear quite
High journalist Sammy so with the laters
tonight from Jerusalem
Samy as always thank
you well to say that almost everyone in
Israel has a personal connection to the
military that would not be an
exaggeration military service is
required of everyone men and women and
for many the current war against Hamas
is their first encounter with life and
death combat my colleague Ben fulan just
returned from Israel where he met
families waiting for their sons and
daughters to return from service and for
security reasons in his report names and
locations have not been
revealed orchestrating an army of
volunteers Israeli American mother of
four Karen is in charge
here 1500 meals a day feeding evacuees
from communities close to the fighting
as well as troops on the
front her 20-year-old son is one of them
this is the only thing that distract me
from
thinking of him and bad
[Music]
thoughts the pictures going around the
world are especially hard for Karen to
watch her son is part of an elite combat
unit he's been on the ground in Gaza
since day
one she's only heard back from him a
couple times over the stretch of a
month she says this is her contribution
to the war effort it's amazing it's
amazing the the feeling that you do
something behind the scene um it helps a
lot mentally physic everything it's like
you wake up in the morning and you have
something to do because as of now the
whole country is like on
hold all parents in Israel know that
their children must do military service
but that doesn't make the sacrifice any
easier for Caren Knights are the
toughest I ask her what goes through her
head everything everything that you want
from sadness to happiness to Proud to no
sleep passs and I'm like getting
emotional um it's a difficult
feeling Karen yearns to hear from her
son but dreads a call from the
military she says no news is good
news I'm joined Now by Benjamin Anthony
he's in IDF combat reservice and a
veteran of several IDF campaigns he's
also the co-founder and CEO of the
Miriam Institute which describes itself
as the Premier International forum for
Israel focused discussion he joins us
tonight from Washington DC Mr Anthony
it's good to have you on the program the
US president thank you for having me U
the US president and the Secretary of
State they have exerted a lot of public
pressure recently to get Israel to say
yes to these daily pauses in the f in
Gaza the concerns coming from Israel's
allies are they impacting the
effectiveness of the military's campaign
in
Gaza no I don't think so at all and I
think that it's positive that the states
of Israel has moved towards what it
calls tactical pauses in the fighting
it's positive because it means that
we're making very good progress there
militarily it's also positive because
under no circumstances is prime minister
Netanyahu willing to enter into a
long-term ceasefire with Hamas despite
hamas's pleas for Israel to do so and
requests for Israel to do so and the
Prime Minister has reiterated and stood
firm behind the goals of this war which
are to topple Hamas and to have the
hostages returned home to our people
inside the states of Israel safely and
whole and therefore the humanitarian
pauses can take place but if there is to
be a ceasefire the prime minister is
very clear the hostages must come home
let me ask you about targets the the IDF
says that its targets are chosen for
military reasons and that they are in
line with international law but above
that to what extent does the moral
dilemma caused by the death of civilians
in these engagements to what extent does
that put the Strategic goals in
Jeopardy well actually the IDF
activities inside the Gaza Strip
supersede the standard imposed by
International humanitarian law I'll give
you an example the dropping of leaflets
and the reiterated calls for the gazans
to evacuate South by way of a
humanitarian Corridor that's facilitated
by the Israel Defense Forces that
actually supersedes the requirement of
militaries in armed conflict that's
actually a standard that the IDF employs
as a consequence of our moral standard
our moral standard being higher than the
legal threshold so that's just one point
with regard to that and in terms of the
targeting it's absolutely proportionate
to the goals of the war once we saw the
Rampage on October the 7th of Kamas
which resulted in the murder of 1,400 of
our people our elderly our infirm our
women our children our unborn children
and the kidnapping of some
230 hostages 240 hostages into the Gaza
Strip including Holocaust Survivors and
all of those categories of people that I
mentioned earlier the war goal became
the topping of Kamas because of that it
is proportionate to make more direct
more key more impactful strikes if they
are in service of that war Aim so I'm
very comfortable with the
proportionality of the idf's
activities Israeli soldiers as I'm sure
you're aware are dying in this war that
was started by Hamas but it's also a war
that was caused by a failure to provide
security and political parties which
have turned out political policies which
have turned out to be flawed military
leaders in Israel they have admitted
their responsibility are you happy with
the response that you've seen from
Israel's political
leadership I'll be perfectly Frank with
you I'm speaking here as an individual
as a citizen of the states of Israel as
a combat veteran of service in the
Israel Defense Forces I'm not happy with
the fact that the prime minister is yet
to say very very clearly and
unequivocally that he Bears
responsibility for what occurred during
October the 7th now let me be clear the
doing of what occurred on October 7th is
not prime minister netanyahu's that is
the doing of Hamas this terrorist
organization that we must now destroy
the responsibility for what took place
of course that has to rest at the head
of state that being prime minister
Netanyahu and I'm very hopeful that he
will actually come out and make that
statement because it's a statement of
leadership if one accepts upon their
shoulders clear responsibility for
something as heinous and horrific as
this is I think that the community there
in the states of Israel that our people
in Israel will understand that there is
a leader cognizant of everything that
took place and willing to shoulder the
burden of responsibility however heavy
that may be yeah what you're saying
there is words matter Optics are also
important especially in in war are you
aware of any Cabinet member attending
the funeral of a fallen Israeli soldier
in this
war so I I'm aware of Defense Minister
yev Gallant who is the only individual
that I know of who has attended funerals
now this is obviously something that
needs to be remedied and improved upon
it's unfortunately a basic standard and
it's durur that cabinet ministers Prime
Ministers and so forth will attend the
funerals of the fallen in the states of
Israel in the event of a loss the fact
that that's not taking place is deeply
regrettable but I do want your viewers
to stay very clearly focused on what
brought about this circumstance that we
now debate the virtues or or demerits of
people visiting the funerals of those
who've been killed what's at play here
is the most murderous Rampage against
the Jewish people since the events of
the Holocaust nothing short of that
what's important to note is that it's
not the same Jews that were there during
the Holocaust these Jews in the states
of Israel are able to fight they're able
to defend themselves and I believe
they're more than capable of bringing
about the toppling and destruction of
Hamas Israel um started this war
politically divided you know case in
point judicial reform last night I
interviewed Uriel abula a political
science professor at Tel Aviv University
and he told me that Israeli Society is
united only in its opposition to Hamas
the polarizing politics of Netanyahu he
said they remain do you agree with that
statement and who do you see being a
future bridge builder inside
Israel so I don't know the professor
that you mentioned I'm not familiar with
his work or his opinions I do believe
that Israel unfortunately unnecessarily
came to this war it's a period of deep
deep disunity within our society and
among our citizenry that's very
regrettable and lamentable and the role
that that played in this failure that
you announced at the top of this
interview that will be investigated
thoroughly absolutely Ely thoroughly now
what you have at the moment is you have
very clear and declared Unity among the
forces of the Israel Defense Forces
among the security establishment and you
also have a Unity government that's come
to play that includes members of the
Coalition of prime minister Netanyahu
and members of the opposition most
notably Minister Benny Gant who has
stepped into a central role in the war
cabinet so you do have that Unity it's
positive to see but but one has to
understand the disunity that predated
this war that was over something that
was less than vital in my opinion it's
only my opinion but that is my view now
you have something that's absolutely
vital to the cohesion of Israel at play
right now number one you have 200 more
than 200 of our hostages inside the Gaza
Strip you also have more than 1,400
members of our society who have been
murdered the relatives and families of
both of those groups they are going to
let their voices be heard and they will
start to become increasingly outspoken
in their demands for answers as to how
this could take place and how in the
case of the hostages this can be
remedied I want to ask you Mr Anthony
for your thoughts on a quote from the
late Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Chiron
from 2004 when um he was quoted as
saying by the end of 2005 there will not
be a single Jew left in the Gaza Strip I
mean that was almost 20 years ago but
when you think about happening right now
how does that quote from an Israeli
leader how does that sit with you now
considering what is
happening well I personally think that
the seeding of land is a mistaken
thought it's a mistaken aspect of
political philosophy it's not a process
that works the idea of seeding land for
peace has not borne fruit when it comes
to negotiations with the Palestinian
Arabs we gave land we withdrew entirely
in 2005 as you alluded to that quote
from former prime minister shaon we
withdrew entirely from the Gaza Strip by
way of the disengagement in 2005 there
indeed was no Jewish presence there
inside the Gaza Strip there was an
opportunity for the Palestinian Arabs to
develop and to build upon the Gaza Strip
to create an oasis nothing short of that
along the shoreline of the Mediterranean
they instead chose terrorism and they
proceeded to build rocket launching
factories they proceeded to arm up they
proceeded to launch horrific Terror
attacks the worst of which we've just
seen on October 7th against the one and
only Jewish State targeting our citizens
and targeting our civilians and I think
that what you will probably see is that
October 7th marks the death n not only
for Hamas as a movement as as I said it
must be destroyed militarily it must be
completely vanquished from the face of
the Earth nothing short of that but
you've probably also seen the death Nell
of the two State solution I do not think
that the Israeli people will be in favor
of the seeding of any land to the
Palestinian Arabs in the pursuit of
peace I think that you have to pursue
peace in return for peace not give away
land in return for a peace that remains
elusive Benjamin Anthony with the Miriam
Institute Mr Anthony we appreciate your
time and there's plenty more to discuss
we hope you can come back and talk with
us again thank you thank you for having
me